---
title: "@_spi(Experimental) in Swift"
description: "System Programming Interfaces (SPI) in Swift"
date: 2022-02-23 11:07:00 +0700
tags: [Swift, Undocumented]
---

I've learned about this feature from [Twitter][tweet]. It's still experimental and not publicly supported, but it's there since Xcode 12 and as far as I can tell, works well[^pr].

[^pr]: See the [implementation][pr] on GitHub for more info.

## `@_spi` huh?

So, what is this all about?

If you ever wrote unit tests for Swift code, you've probably used `@testable import`. It allows access to `internal` declarations of the module under test as if these were public (more details in [docs][testable]).

I understand `@_spi` feature as a generalization of `@testable`. The logic is a bit different though. You mark a public declaration with `@_spi(Identifier)` (where `Identifier` is arbitrary) and this declaration is not visible outside the module.

If some code uses `@_spi(Identifier) import Module` with matching identifier, the declarations marked with `@_spi` become visible as if they were regular public declarations.

Consider an example from the implementation [PR][pr]:

> In the following example, `MyLib` defines a function under the SPI named `Experimental`.
>
> ```swift
> // MyLib
> @_spi(Experimental) public func newExperimentalService() {}
> ```
>
> The SPI function `newExperimentalService` is hidden from clients that imports the module normally.
>
> ```swift
> import MyLib
>
> newExperimentalService() // Error: use of unresolved identifier
> ```
>
> However, clients that imports `MyLib` and its SPI `Experimental` have access to all decls with the attribute ` @_spi(Experimental)` declared in `MyLib`. This is a way for the library clients to opt-in using the SPI.
>
> ```swift
> @_spi(Experimental) import MyLib
>
> newExperimentalService() // Ok
> ```

## What for

This can be really useful in Swift package setups where a package is split into multiple targets. Targets importing each other have to make declarations public, but not all of these declarations should be used by the package clients. For example, I may have the following package:

```swift
let package = Package(
    name: "MyPackage",
    ...
    products: [
        .library(
            name: "MyLibrary",
            type: .dynamic,
            targets: [
                "Database",
            ]
        ),
    ],
    targets: [
        .target(name: "Utils"),
        .target(
            name: "Database",
            dependencies: ["Utils"],
        )
    ]
)
```

Clients using `MyPackage` would

```
import Database
```

and use its public API, but since `Database` depends on `Utils` target, clients could also

```
import Utils
```

and use some of the internal APIs which are not suitable for general use.

These APIs still need to be `public` because `Database` target should be able to access them, and using a special `@_spi` for them could prevent their usage by general public (at least unless they're not using `@_spi import`).

## Support

According to Doug Gregor's [tweet][tweet], the feature is there since Xcode 12. You can use it in production at your own risk.

As I remember trying this feature some time ago, it worked, but Xcode behaved a bit strange with `@_spi` marked declarations – like declarations not appearing in code completion suggestions etc. But I've checked in Xcode 13.2.1, and it looks like the code completion works as expected. Maybe this was an indexing issue that time.

----

**Notes:**

[tweet]: https://twitter.com/dgregor79/status/1275805785247739904
[testable]: https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/ReferenceManual/Attributes.html#ID595
[pr]: https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/29810
